$OpenXM$

Risa/Asir LIMITED USE LICENSE AGREEMENT

1. License Grant:

FUJITSU LABORATORIES LIMITED ("FLL") hereby grants you a limited,
non-exclusive and royalty-free license to use, copy, modify and
redistribute, solely for non-commercial and non-profit purposes, the
computer program, "Risa/Asir" ("SOFTWARE"), subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, you acquire
only a limited right to use the SOFTWARE hereunder, and FLL or any
third party developer retains all rights, including but not limited to
copyrights, in and to the SOFTWARE.

2. Restrictions

(1) FLL does not grant you a license in any way for commercial
purposes. You may use the SOFTWARE only for non-commercial and
non-profit purposes only, such as academic, research and internal
business use.

(2) The SOFTWARE is protected by the Copyright Law of Japan and
international copyright treaties. If you make copies of the SOFTWARE,
with or without modification, as permitted hereunder, you shall affix
to all such copies of the SOFTWARE the copyright notice specified
below.

Copyright 1994-2000 FUJITSU LABORATORIES LIMITED All rights reserved.

(3) An explicit reference to this SOFTWARE and its copyright owner
shall be made on your publication or presentation in any form of the
results obtained by use of the SOFTWARE.

(4) In the event that you modify the SOFTWARE, you shall notify FLL by
e-mail at risa-admin@sec.flab.fujitsu.co.jp.

of the detailed specification for such modification or the source code
of the modified part of the SOFTWARE.

3. Third Party's Software:

Multi-precision floating point number operations (arithmetic,
mathematical function evaluation and many other related functions) of
Risa/Asir are performed by PARI system developed by C. Batut,
D. Bernardi, H. Cohen and M.  Olivier. If you use the source code
version of the SOFTWARE, the source code files and related
documentation of PARI are not provided by FLL but are made available
at ftp://megrez.ceremab.u-bordeaux.fr/pub/pari.

If you have questions regarding PARI, please contact
pari@ceremab.u-bordeaux.fr.

4. Disclaimer of warranty:

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. FLL
MAKES ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESSED, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, AND
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTIES'
RIGHTS. NO FLL DEALER, AGENT, EMPLOYEES IS AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ANY
MODIFICATIONS, EXTENSIONS, OR ADDITIONS TO THIS WARRANTY.

5. Limitation of Liability:

1. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, TORT, CONTRACT,
OR OTHERWISE, SHALL FLL BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE OR THIS AGREEMENT, DAMAGES
FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, OR LOSS OF DATA, OR FOR ANY
DAMAGES, EVEN IF FLL SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY OTHER PARTY. 2. EVEN IF A PART
OF THE SOFTWARE HAS BEEN DEVELOPED BY A THIRD PARTY, THE THIRD PARTY
DEVELOPER SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE,
PERFORMANCE OR NON-PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.

6. Equitable Relief

You agree that your breach of the terms and conditions hereof may
cause FLL irreparable harm for which there may be no adequate remedy
at law, and FLL may therefore seek equitable relief.

7. Miscellaneous

1. You shall comply with all export controls laws and regulations in
your country or in other countries which may be applied in connection
with the SOFTWARE.

2. Use, duplication or disclosure of the SOFTWARE by the U.S
Government is subject to restrictions set forth in subparagraph (a)
through (b) of the Commercial Computer- Restricted Rights clause at
FAR 52.227-19 when applicable, or in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of
the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFAR
252.227-7013, and in similar clauses in the NASA FAR
Supplement. Contractor/manufacturer is FUJITSU LABORATORIES LIMITED,
4-1-1 Kamikodanaka Nakaharaku Kawasaki 211-8588, Japan.

